So asked,
is database migration a common occurrence?
Yes, the answer is yes.
When I worked at Reddit,
we did a lot of database migration.
So let's talk about database migration for
just a second.
I guess,
particular in a different question.
So I'm going to answer the question
that I had my head first and
then I will go back and
ask her pratiques question.
So, database migrations from the
perspective of I have one schema in my SQL
database, and I need to have
a different schema in my database.
This is called a migration,
which is why I was thinking about that,
it's expensive and it sucks, and
if you can avoid it, you should.
So with SQL, it's really good for you
to anticipate your schema needs upfront
because when you have to move and
do alter table commands, it's unfunded,
unfunded is the correct term for
what that feels like.
So there's a Django that's what
we used to write at Reddit.
Django has an ability called South
which they've now renamed to something
else which will actually do
ALTER TABLE statements for you.
And it's messy, it takes a long time,
so it's possible,
but it's better if you can anticipate
your needs upfront politics.
Actual question is about migrating
from one database to another
like wholesale, right?
If I need to move from Postgres
to MongoDB what's that look like?
I don't see that necessarily as much,
I've never been party to that we actually
did consider when I was at Reddit
moving from MySQL to Postgres to
get some of that JSON goodness.
And we ended up not doing
it because it's expensive.
It's expensive in the fact that you
have to write a lot of code that
takes data out of one database
normalizes and sticks into another and
it just never typically goes
the way that you want to.
I would only say you need to
have a very good reason, and
even if you've that good of a reason,
it still might not be worth it to
move from one database to another.
Migrating databases is really tough.
So I would only do it if you had
catastrophic reasons that you had to move
off one of them.
Mina is asking we had a lot of trouble
with subscription using pub sub Redis.
Any advice to optimize it?
Unfortunately, I don't have enough
experience with the pub sub
mechanisms of reticence,
to give you any sort of useful advice.
But when you find the answer, I would love
for you to tweet me at and tell me what
your experiences because I haven't heard
of a lot of people using it in production.
So, best of luck,
I think it's what I have to say,
[LAUGH] Congratulations
on making this far.
This is a very long course about
a lot of information all at once.
So just congratulations, I'm impressed
with myself that I made it this far,
right, I know these things.
I just want to give you a some
like parting advice on like how to
choose the correct database because I
think that's kind of one of my points of
this course is I want you to know when
you're going into these decisions,
what trade offs you're making, right.
I want you to have the pros and
cons here so
that whatever problem you're tackling,
you choose the right tool for the job.
So I'm going to walk you through my
process of how, if I'm starting a new
startup and I have a new app,
how I'm going to choose my database.
The first thing is like what's
the paradigm of your data?
Do you have highly relational data?
Do you need to do a lot of joins?
Then you probably need to use a relational
database, that's the most obvious one.
Do I have highly unstructured data where
I have collections of related objects,
but might have shifting
schemers over time.
Then something like MongoDB is
gonna be really good for that.
Do you have something where you have to
describe a lot of relationships between
various different nodes in your database?
In that case, you probably need a graph.
Do you just need simple needs
of setting and getting,
then something like Redis can do that for
you.
And one thing we didn't talk about but
one that you should probably
be aware of is Kafka.
And Rabbit is, do you have a lot of
messages that are being passed around?
Do you need to broker messages between
the different parts of your app?
In that case, something like RabbitMQ or
Kafka can be really useful for that.
So your answer is probably some
combination of all of the above, right?
It's usually not, clear-cut,
it's definitely that it's usually
like I got this middle area here.
So how am I going to choose beyond that?
And specifically when you
come to something like
Postgres versus mySQL versus MongoDB,
that line's pretty blurry, right?
They all can kind of
accomplish similar things.
So yeah, consider your data needs,
that's probably the first thing
I'm going to tell you to do.
Something else for you to consider, and
this is going to be actually more towards
data architecture rather
than which database.
But we talked a lot about reading and
writing, but
usually your application has either
a lot of reads or a lot of writes.
Let me give you an example,
an application like Netflix,
you're in general reading
from the database, right?
You don't constantly go in and
change your Netflix profile every day,
you generally write that once, and then
you leave it alone for a really long time.
But that data gets read a lot, right?
Because it's gonna read
from your preferences,
it's gonna read from which movies you
wanna watch, and all that kind of stuff.
That's a very read-heavy situation, so
in that case you want to architecture
data so it's optimized to be read.
So you're probably gonna write all of
your data generally in one place because
you don't want to be doing 17 joins
to get all the correct data together,
because that's expensive.
Joins are not cheap.
Again, I'm referencing my friend
that works at MongoDB Harry,
he told me that like,
it's okay to do joins in MongoDB.
As long,
you're not doing it a whole lot so
you can actually have
multiple collections and
do joins in MongoDB As long as you're not
doing it a lot right because then it's
even if it's an expensive query if you're
running it once a day doesn't matter.
So that's always something you want to
keep in mind is read heavy versus right
heavy do I will not be optimizing my
data for being read from or is it do I
want to be optimized idea so it's because
I'm rewriting it to it a lot, right?
So Twitter is a good example of something
it's going to be very right heavy because
people are tweeting all the time you're
writing, going to your database, right?
So make those trade offs.
Okay, so let's say I've I decided that
my I have a multi paradigm need for
my database, which one do I choose next?
Generally, I just go talk to my teams all
right, raise your hand if Mongo, raise
your hand if Postgres, and if everyone in
the room knows Postgres, and no one knows
Mongo, I think you pretty well have
your answer at that point, right.
Familiarity buys a lot in terms
of experience just knowing how to
administrate these kind of things.
You don't have to like relearn all of
the trauma that comes with learning
a new database.
So familiarity is a big one,
quality of drivers is one that
I think often gets overlooked.
If you're gonna Going to be
writing you know to Postgres but
you're writing elixir.
I don't know the quality of the Postgres
connector to elixir, it might be good,
I'm not saying it's bad or
anything like that.
But you might want to just go check
out the quality of the drivers for
the language that you've chosen.
Operations costs, you want to look at this
from all perspectives like what does it
cost me to run this database in production
in terms of like just the dollars moving
out of your bank account, times you
have to spend writing code for it.
Cost of downtime, but
you also need to look at how expensive
is it to hire someone that can do this?
So again, I'm going back to like,
how many elixir
engineers know how to write to
Neo4j might be zero, right?
So hiring for
those kind of things are very expensive.
So look at it in terms of hiring,
an expertise that exists
in the field as well.
And like this is probably like the least
fun advice I'll give you today,
which is be boring, right?
Usually it's a good idea to just
go with boring tech choices.
And when I say boring tech, like maybe
tomorrow, there's a brand new like
Super DB that comes out that
does everything perfectly and
everyone's on Hacker News is saying that
like, this is the greatest thing ever.
It solved all my data needs.
It also cured my arthritis, right?
Like it just does everything.
I'm gonna say, let everyone else
suffer through all of the growing
pains of super DB and wait like five
years for it to become boring too.
That's my advice to you, I'd rather
spend my time on the product and
like working on finding product market fit
than I do want to spend getting super DB
to play nice with my configuration
of terraform or something like that.
In general when you're making technical
choices be as boring as possible.
All right, let's talk about caching for
just a second.
My very strong advice for
you is use caching sparingly and
use it only when you need it.
In other words, don't prematurely optimize
your application, and why do I say this?
Caching adds a lot of an extra layer
of indirection to your application.
My good example of this is that,
if you make a call to an end point,
you don't actually really know,
typically did that come from cache or
did that come from the database?
And so when you have a bug
is a problem with the cat,
is there a problem with the database?
Is there a problem with the code?
Is there problems to the code the rest of
the cache has a problem with the code that
writes to the database.
You added this like extra layer
of debugging to your app,
that sucks debugging
the cache is the worst.
And that's why I'm just telling you,
as some of you are probably
my future coworkers.
Please wait to use the cache
until you absolutely need it.
Make sure that your caching
is solving a problem.
Don't just cache because it
seems like a good idea, right?
Just my general mantra with writing
code is have a problem to fix.
Don't try to solve a problem
that you don't have yet
because you usually don't end
up solving the right problem.
Yeah, and just like a big reason I say
that is, while databases are expensive
databases today, like Postgres and
Mongo DB are designed to handle enormous
amounts of traffic,
have a little bit of faith in them.
Like, let them show you that they
can actually handle quite a bit of
capacity before you actually say like,
I don't believe you.
Here's a cache in front of you,
so it's a very, very sharp sword.
It's and it definitely cuts both ways.
So just be careful with caching.
Yeah I mean that the joke is there's two
things that are hard in computer science,
caching, cache invalidation,
naming things and off by one, right?
One of those is cache invalidation,
and there's a damn good reason for it.
It's hard to figure out
how long to cache data.
It's not there's not normally
a clear answer to that question.
Okay, I'm just going to throw out here,
there's a bunch of really great courses in
front of masters that cover some or
all of what I covered today.
So I'm just going to throw out some two
of them that I think from me that I will
personally benefit you
if you like this course,
are the complete intro to
Linux in the CLA talk.
I have a lot of good stuff in there
about how to work on Linux stuff and
how to like understand the CLR better even
for people that know Linux pretty well.
And another one here is
complete intro to containers.
If you were interested in the Docker stuff
that we were running, I go Really in-depth
probably more in-depth than anyone
wants to go, but I like it, right.
So this will teach you everything
that we did today with containers,
and then from some other amazing
structures on front and masters,
Scott Moss personal here in mind
always kicks my ass at video games.
Intro to MongoDB.
That one uses Mongoose, so if you want to
learn stuff about ORM specifically with
MongoDB, hop right into that one.
And then API Design with MongoDB,
it goes into more Node code with Mongo,
A plus teacher, good friend of mine,
I like Scott a lot,
he also has some courses on GraphQL.
So GraphQL from a server perspective,
GraphQL from a client perspective and
then advanced GraphQL.
If you'd liked that
stuff that we did today,
Scott Moss has good
courses on that as well.
And then another one of my
favorite courses is from my ex
coworker at Netflix, Jem Young.
He does a full stack engineering for
and that's another really good course,
and that's going to be more
on the management side.
I kind of gave you like little
footnotes here and there,
Jem's going to get really deep into like,
let's start up a server.
Let's talk about DNS.
Let's talk about all that
kind of lower level stuff.
Okay, thanks all for sticking with me.
You unlocked the achievement of
listening to me for too many hours, and
working with some databases,
hopefully this was helpful to everybody.
Please tweet at me your success stories,
that just warms my cold, dead heart if you
found any issues, I've actually noticed
a ton of issues in my course notes here.
So I'm going to go fix a bunch of those,
open a pull request.
I'm deeply grateful for
that kind of stuff.
All right, everyone,
I really hope you enjoyed the course.
Thanks for sticking it out with me, hope
y'all have a good rest of your week and
I hope your your weather
is better than mine.